# AI_Misinfo

AI_Misinfo is a project I started after noticing the huge influx of AI-generated content flooding social media feeds. It felt unsettling that I genuinely had a hard time telling the difference between reality and AI, and I realized this has the potential to create real harm. For example, how would AI content affect the development of millions of young people scrolling social media every day? Realistic videos created by AI could hugely impact a way a young person percieves the world and blurs the line between what they believe is true and false. Even seemingly harmless trends on social media may have consequences: a 2025 trend on Instagram featured a series of reels that showed AI generated gameplay of "Bird Game", a game that never existed. However, the Instagram community pretended it was a real, nostalgic game of the past. Trends like this can imprint false memories of the past in young people's minds, and if used in malicious ways, could imprint misinformation and violent ideologies into millions of individuals through their social media feeds. 

Our project is aimed at building a tool to combat harmful AI generated content by detecting it in real time and blocking it from the user's feed. We used a pretrained CNN model ResNet50 and retrained the last few layers on a dataset from Kaggle containing real and AI images. Our resulting classifier was able to perform at a final F1 score of 96%. 

** UPDATE JULY 2026 ** 
I initially believed (based on the one "Bird Game" trend) that I would notice more "casual" AI content would flood social media feeds such as Instagram. By "casual" content I mean social trends that get built around AI generated content, such as large communities role-playing as though fake content were real. I believed a rise in this trend would present hidden dangers toward what people come to believe. However, I realized that as a recent trend of "AI fatigue", I have seen less and less of this kind of content or trends. Spaces such as Instagram reels are still very alive with human short term content, with AI content taking a back seat among a sea of creators. I realized that building a "blocker" for AI content (for social media feeds specifically) is an unneccesary undertaking, and I should focus more on clear scams and malicious content that primarily uses AI for harm. Overall, this project was a great learning experience for learning to build an AI tool from scratch, working with a passionate team with good development practices and learning to use external computing hardware. 


